# Monetary Economics
## 1 Functions of Monetary
- Medium of Exchange *main function*
- Units of Account
- Store of Value
## 2 Utility Maximizing Model
$$
\max_{x,y} U(x, y)~~s.t. p_{x}x+p_{y}y \leq p_{x}\bar{x}+ p_{y}\bar y
$$
$(\bar x ,\bar y)$ is the endowment.
## 3 Arrow-Debreu Model
There are $I$ agents, $J$ goods. The price is $P = (p_{1}, p_{2}, \cdots, p_{J})$. The endowment is $W_{i} = (w_{i1}, w_{i2}, \cdots , w_{iJ})'$.
Given $P$ then $X_i$ satisfy 
- Utility maximization  $\max _{X_{i}}~~s.t.~pX_{i} \leq pW_i$
- Market clear $\sum _{i} X_{i}\leq \sum_iW_i$
Much too efficient! Money is not essential welfare enhancing program.
### 3.1 $1st$ Welfare Theorem
Any Welfare Equilibrium is pareto optimal. 
### 3.2 CIA (Cash in Advance)
The best monetary policy is not to involve money.
### 3.3 Money in Utility
That makes no sense.
# Introduction of Money
## 1 Why money?
- Limited Commitment
- Lack of Record Keeping
## 2 Model Configuration
- Discrete time
- Agents live forever
- Agents have their own good, which costs $c$
- Agents get $U$ when consuming goods he likes.
- Agents find a counterpart with probability $\alpha$.
	- Double coincidence
	- Single coincidence
### 2.1 Case A : Autarky
$$\begin{aligned}V^{A}_{t} &= Payoff _{t}+ \beta V^{A}_{t+1} \\
&= Payoff _{t} + \beta Payoff_{t+1}+\cdots\end{aligned}$$
At steady state, $V^{A}_{t}= V^{A}_{t+1} = V^A$
### 2.2 Case B: Barter
$$
\begin{aligned}
V^{B} &= \alpha \delta (U-c) + \beta V^\beta\\
V^{B} &= \alpha \delta\frac{U-c}{1-\beta}
\end{aligned}
$$
### 2.3 Case C: Credit
$$
\begin{aligned}
V^{C} &= \alpha \delta (U-c) + \alpha \sigma U + \alpha\sigma(-c) + \beta V^{C}\\
V^{C}&= \frac{\alpha(\delta+\sigma)(U-c)}{1-\beta}>V^B
\end{aligned}
$$
$\pi$ Probability of getting caught if reneging 
Possible punishment $V^{P}= V^{A}=0$
Keep promise: $-c +\beta V^{C} \geq \beta \pi V^{A} +\beta (1-\pi) V^{C}$



